Added docs for client signature verification policy. (#644)
pulp/pulp_container: docs/workflows/verify-images.rst

.. _verify-images:

Configure client signature verification policy
==============================================

In order to verify container images consumed from Pulp Container Registry the following files need

> to be configured on the client side:

Reviewer: This introduction sounds like a list is expected. Can you maybe make a bullet list for those files and their description?

``/etc/containers/registries.d/default.yaml``

This is a default registries.d configuration file.  You may add to this file or create additional
files in registries.d/.

For full details and spec refer to https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-registries.d.5.md

> Provide read and write location for a separate ``sigstore`` for the registry in question.
> Pulp Container Registry has an integrated signature store, therefore there is no need to provide any
> updates to this file. Client will try to use registry extentions API to read and write image
> signatures.

Reviewer: It's not clear to me if that applies to the first or the second file.
```suggestion
Provide a read and write location for a separate ``sigstore`` for the registry in question.
Pulp Container Registry has an integrated signature store, therefore there is no need to provide any
updates to this file. The client will try to use the registry extentions API to read and write image
signatures.
```

``/etc/containers/policy.json``

> This is a default signature verification policy file that is used to specify policy, e.g. trusted
> keys, applicable when deciding whether to accept an image, or individual signatures of that image,
> as valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a default signature verification policy file that is used to specify the policy, e.g. trusted
keys, applicable when deciding whether to accept an image, or individual signatures of that image,
as valid.
```

> Parsing for this json file is strict: unrecognized, duplicated or otherwise invalid fields cause the
> entire file, and usually the entire operation, to be rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parsing this json file is performed in a strict manner: unrecognized, duplicated or otherwise invalid fields cause the
entire file, and usually the entire operation, to be rejected.
```

For full details and spec refer to https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-policy.json.5.md

Verify images mirrored with its original signature into Pulp Container Registry
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Usecase: Pulp Container Registy contains mirrored container images and its signatures from remote
> registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usecase: Pulp Container Registy contains mirrored container images and their signatures from a remote
registry.
```

> Create remote and specify the url to sync container images from and sigstore url to fetch and store
> locally their corresponding original signatures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a remote you can specify the url to sync container images from and the sigstore url to fetch their corresponding original signatures.
```

        X-Frame-Options: DENY

        {
            "ca_cert": null,
            "client_cert": null,
            "connect_timeout": null,
            "download_concurrency": null,
            "exclude_tags": null,
            "headers": null,
            "include_tags": [
                "8.5"
            ],
            "max_retries": null,
            "name": "legacy-registry-rh",
            "policy": "immediate",
            "proxy_url": null,
            "pulp_created": "2022-03-10T15:06:02.107728Z",
            "pulp_href": "/pulp/api/v3/remotes/container/container/64da87b6-7bff-4ab5-9b35-7922e3efd352/",
            "pulp_labels": {},
            "pulp_last_updated": "2022-03-10T15:06:02.107769Z",
            "rate_limit": null,
            "sigstore": "https://access.redhat.com/webassets/docker/content/sigstore",
            "sock_connect_timeout": null,
            "sock_read_timeout": null,
            "tls_validation": true,
            "total_timeout": null,
            "upstream_name": "ubi8/ubi-micro",
            "url": "https://registry.access.redhat.com"
        }

After sync task completion, create distribution with the base_path ``local-ubi8-repo`` under which

> the image and signatures will be available for pull and verification:

Reviewer: I think it is important, that we use the same name, right? We should state so.

Author: Actually in this case it is not, since the remapIdentity will handle it.
It's important to use same future_base_bath during signing operation as the base_path  of the distribution.

        Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=15768000
        Vary: Accept, Cookie
        X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
        X-Frame-Options: DENY

        {
            "base_path": "local-ubi8-repo",
            "content_guard": "/pulp/api/v3/contentguards/core/content_redirect/27d55db4-2b99-49f6-9838-8ca52647d714/",
            "description": null,
            "name": "local-ubi8-repo",
            "namespace": "/pulp/api/v3/pulp_container/namespaces/fe4d8115-a81c-4eb3-950e-2cf1cc7f033f/",
            "private": false,
            "pulp_created": "2022-03-10T16:04:52.026832Z",
            "pulp_href": "/pulp/api/v3/distributions/container/container/1e59e5a8-5247-401d-a9b5-9b3ef07d5efe/",
            "pulp_labels": {},
            "registry_path": "fluffy.example.com/local-ubi8-repo",
            "repository": null,
            "repository_version": "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/container/container/60747422-30d8-4b92-83e6-e6f025b6d829/versions/1/"
        }

The ``base_path`` differs from the original upstream repo name and configuration should happen per
repo. Since the original singed itentity differs from the location the images are being served, the

> ``remapIdentity`` and full registry path prefix needs to be specified.

Reviewer: In case you want to publish the signed container images with a different base_path, ...

Author: I don't think i understand where the suggestion should go?
The remapidentity should be specified anyway, regardless on whether the base_path is same or different and it would look like this https://github.com/pulp/pulp_container/issues/530#issuecomment-1011015667 The per-repo configuration is needed the moment registry also contains pushed content.
And since mirrored and pushed content is one the base registry usages I decided not to go into the above mentioned semantics to not create more confusion. wdyt?

Reviewer: I don't quite remember. I think, i wanted to suggest a more tutorial style (To accomplish that, you need to do...), because i didn't understand why you describe the difference here.

Author: I actually had hard time to explain exactly this paragraph. I wanted to outline that because of different content provenance the config should be per repo and that remapidentity should contain full path.
I can probably skip the first sentence and just keep `Since the original singed identity differs from the location the images are being served, the remapIdentity and full registry path prefix needs to be specified.` wdyt?

Reviewer: That's spot on. There's a reason, the problem and the action to solve it.

Author: pushed

to be configured on the client side:

``/etc/containers/registries.d/default.yaml``

This is a default registries.d configuration file.  You may add to this file or create additional
files in registries.d/.

For full details and spec refer to https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-registries.d.5.md

Provide read and write location for a separate ``sigstore`` for the registry in question.
Pulp Container Registry has an integrated signature store, therefore there is no need to provide any
updates to this file. Client will try to use registry extentions API to read and write image
signatures.

``/etc/containers/policy.json``

This is a default signature verification policy file that is used to specify policy, e.g. trusted
keys, applicable when deciding whether to accept an image, or individual signatures of that image,
as valid.

Parsing for this json file is strict: unrecognized, duplicated or otherwise invalid fields cause the
entire file, and usually the entire operation, to be rejected.

For full details and spec refer to https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-policy.json.5.md

> Verify images mirrored with its original signature into Pulp Container Registry

Reviewer 2: Maybe it's worth having a higher level title "Common use cases"?
We do not mean to provide the exhaustive list of use cases and configuration, and it sets a better expectation for a user that it is one of the ways to configure the policy. What do you think?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Usecase: Pulp Container Registy contains mirrored container images and its signatures from remote

Reviewer 2: I think a "use case" is two words, but I'm not entirely sure.

        Vary: Accept, Cookie
        X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
        X-Frame-Options: DENY

        {
            "ca_cert": null,
            "client_cert": null,
            "connect_timeout": null,
            "download_concurrency": null,
            "exclude_tags": null,
            "headers": null,
            "include_tags": [
                "8.5"
            ],
            "max_retries": null,
            "name": "legacy-registry-rh",
            "policy": "immediate",
            "proxy_url": null,
            "pulp_created": "2022-03-10T15:06:02.107728Z",
            "pulp_href": "/pulp/api/v3/remotes/container/container/64da87b6-7bff-4ab5-9b35-7922e3efd352/",
            "pulp_labels": {},
            "pulp_last_updated": "2022-03-10T15:06:02.107769Z",
            "rate_limit": null,
            "sigstore": "https://access.redhat.com/webassets/docker/content/sigstore",
            "sock_connect_timeout": null,
            "sock_read_timeout": null,
            "tls_validation": true,
            "total_timeout": null,
            "upstream_name": "ubi8/ubi-micro",
            "url": "https://registry.access.redhat.com"
        }

> After sync task completion, create distribution with the base_path ``local-ubi8-repo`` under which

Reviewer 2: After reading this, I checked a couple of times if I saw only remote creation or sync as well. For whatever reason it reads like a follow up to the example provided.
Maybe name action first and then say what happens after?
E.g. "Perform a sync operation using this remote, and after the sync task completed, create ..."

        Date: Thu, 10 Mar 2022 16:08:25 GMT
        Referrer-Policy: same-origin
        Server: nginx/1.20.1
        Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=15768000
        Vary: Accept, Cookie
        X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
        X-Frame-Options: DENY

        {
            "base_path": "local-ubi8-repo",
            "content_guard": "/pulp/api/v3/contentguards/core/content_redirect/27d55db4-2b99-49f6-9838-8ca52647d714/",
            "description": null,
            "name": "local-ubi8-repo",
            "namespace": "/pulp/api/v3/pulp_container/namespaces/fe4d8115-a81c-4eb3-950e-2cf1cc7f033f/",
            "private": false,
            "pulp_created": "2022-03-10T16:04:52.026832Z",
            "pulp_href": "/pulp/api/v3/distributions/container/container/1e59e5a8-5247-401d-a9b5-9b3ef07d5efe/",
            "pulp_labels": {},
            "registry_path": "fluffy.example.com/local-ubi8-repo",
            "repository": null,
            "repository_version": "/pulp/api/v3/repositories/container/container/60747422-30d8-4b92-83e6-e6f025b6d829/versions/1/"
        }

The ``base_path`` differs from the original upstream repo name and configuration should happen per

> repo. Since the original singed itentity differs from the location the images are being served, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
repo. Since the original singed identity differs from the location the images are being served, the
```

        {
          "default": [{"type": "reject"}],
          "transports": {
            "docker": {
              "fluffy.example.com/local-ubi8-repo": [
                {
                  "type": "signedBy",
                  "keyType": "GPGKeys",
                  "keyPath": "/path-to-rh-key.txt",
                  "signedIdentity": {
                      "type": "remapIdentity",
                      "prefix": "fluffy.example.com/local-ubi8-repo",
                      "signedPrefix": "registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/ubi-micro"
                  }
                }
              ]
            },
            "containers-storage": {
            "": [{"type": "insecureAcceptAnything"}] /* Allow copy operations on any images stored in containers storage (e.g. podman push) */
            }
          }
        }

       podman pull fluffy.example.com/local-ubi8-repo:8.5

Verify images pushed into Pulp Container registry
-------------------------------------------------

Usecase: Pulp Container Registry serves container images that were pushed into it (signed or not).

Push an image into Pulp Container registry and sign it in one go:

::

>         $ podman push fluffy.example.com/myrepo/test-image:foo --sign-by pupsik@redhat.com

Reviewer 2: I hope it's a made-up alias and won't be accepted at RH :rofl:

        Trying to pull fluffy.example.com/myrepo/test-image:foo...
        Getting image source signatures
        Checking if image destination supports signatures
        Copying blob 58147e24f776 skipped: already exists  
        Copying config 829374d342 done  
        Writing manifest to image destination
        Storing signatures
        829374d342ae65a12f3a95911bc04a001894349f70783fda841b1a784008727d

        $ cat  /etc/containers/policy.json
        {
          "default": [{"type": "reject"}],
          "transports": {
            "docker": {
               "fluffy.example.com": [
                {
                  "type": "signedBy",
                  "keyType": "GPGKeys",
                  "keyPath": "/path-to-pupsik-key.gpg"
                }
              ]
            },
            "containers-storage": {
            "": [{"type": "insecureAcceptAnything"}] /* Allow copy operations on any images stored in containers storage (e.g. podman push) */
            }
          }
        }

Verify images from multiple registries
--------------------------------------

Usecase: Pull and verify content from Pulp Container registry and also other registries.

> To pull and verify images coming directly from ``registry.access.redhat.com`` create a separate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To pull and verify images coming also from ``registry.access.redhat.com`` create a separate
```

Just to emphasize that there is more than one registry. It says it in the title and the use case but the example is referring to one registry, and only policy lists multiple. Nitpick.
